---
layout: default
category: jav
title: "Models"
---

# Models

Gloop data models are defined by extending the GloopObject. See example below:

```java
public class Person extends GloopObject {

	@PrimaryKey
	private String name;
	private int age;

	private List<Person> friends;

	@Ignore
	private int sessionId;
}
```

## Field types

### Primitive data types
Gloop supports all Java primitive data types. String is treated like a primitive data type

```java
byte
short
int
long
float
double
char
boolean
String  
```

### Collections
List, Map, Set and Arrays can be used to save data.

Some examples:  

```java

List<String> strings = new ArrayList<String>();

Map<String,Integer> map = new HashMap<String,Integer>();

Set<Date> dates = new HashSet<Date>();
Set<Person> persons = new LinkedHashSet<Person>();

int[] integers = new int[2];
Person[] persons = new Person[10];

Map<String,List<Person>> mapWithList = new Map<String,List<Person>>();
```
Every collection containing: primitive types (int, ...), wrapper types (Integer, ...), GloopObjects can be saved.

### Objects
Every object which inherit from GloopObject can be used inside another GloopObject. If an other objects wont to be saved a custom serializer need to be implemented and registered.  
Some serializers for other objects are provided by Gloop:  

* DateSerializer
* ClassSerializer
* JSONSerializer
* URLSerializer
* UUIDSerializer
* ...

## Ignoring property
With the annotation `@Ignore` you can define if the property should not be saved from Gloop.

```java
@Ignore
private int sessionId;
```

## PrimaryKey property
With the annotation `@PrimaryKey` you can define a property as primary key in the database. It is not necessary to define a PrimaryKey, otherwise the objectId is the primary key of the table. Only primitive types (All primitive wrapper types like Integer etc. and String) can be primary keys. It is allowed to have a combined primary key. You can combine primary keys as much as you want.

```java
@PrimaryKey
private int id;
```

Combined primary keys:

```java
@PrimaryKey
private String firstName;

@PrimaryKey
private String surname;
```

## Required property
With the annotation `@Required` you can define that this property can't be `null`, when saving the object. The property is assigned as `NOT NULL` in the database. If the properties is `null` when calling the save operation of the object, a `GloopRequiredException` is thrown. All primitive wrapper object like Integer, Boolean etc. by default can't be `null`. If a property is assigned with the `@PrimaryKey` annotation then this property can also not be null.

```java
@Required
private Date date;
```

## Encrypt
Encrypt can only be applied to strings. If a string is annotated with `@Encryp` than this property is saved encrypted in the database. When the object is loaded, the property is decrypted and stored in the property.

```java
@Encrypt
private String password;
```
