---
layout: default
category: jav
title: "Setup"
---

# Install

## Android Studio

1. Download GloopSDK for Android zip and extract it.
2. Create a new project with Android Studio  
3. copy the gloop-VERSION.jar from the zip file into the app/libs folder  
4. In the Android Studio menu: Tools->Android->Sync Project with Gradle Files  

If you are using other libraries with annotation processor do following:

Configure your project-level build.gradle to include the 'android-apt' plugin:

```
buildscript {
  repositories {
    mavenCentral()
   }
  dependencies {
    classpath 'com.neenbedankt.gradle.plugins:android-apt:1.8'
  }
}
```
Then, apply the 'android-apt' plugin in your module-level build.gradle and add the Butter Knife dependencies:

```
apply plugin: 'android-apt'

android {
  ...
}

dependencies {
  	compile fileTree(dir: 'libs', include: ['gloop.jar'])
    apt fileTree(dir: 'libs', include: ['gloopProcessor.jar'])
}
```
Note: If you are using the new Jack compiler with version 2.2.0 or newer you do not need the 'android-apt' plugin and can instead replace apt with annotationProcessor when declaring the compiler dependency.


## Eclipse (deprecated)

1. Download GloopSDK for Android zip and extract it.
2. Copy the jar file and folders (containing the libgloop_sdk.so files) from distribution/eclipse/ to your app’s libs folder.
3. Right click on the realm jar file from libs folder, and go to “Build Path” -> “Add to Build path”.


# Initialise the Gloop object

In the onCreate method of your main Activity you need to initialize the Gloop object. The Gloop object has to be created first before using any other operation of Gloop.

Local usage only:

```java
@Override
protected void onCreate(Bundle savedInstanceState) {
    new Gloop(this, "your-api-key-goes-here");
}
```

Online usage:

```java
@Override
protected void onCreate(Bundle savedInstanceState) {
    new Gloop(this, "your-api-key-goes-here", "192.168.0.12:8080");
}
```

In the `AndroidMAinfest.xml` add 

```xml
...
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.INTERNET"/>
...
```
 to allow network access to the app.
